Hey everyone this lecture is going to be
able building R packages.
So this is a really a key product that,
that you can build that
implemented statics, any kind of
statistical or
other methodology that you develop on your
own.
And it's a great way to distribute your
approaches to other people who use R
because there are a lot of centralized
platforms
and repositories that you can take
advantage of.
So I'm going to talk about how the co, one
of
the basic aspects and pieces to, for
building an R package
and so that you can kind of know what
part, what, what
goes into building it and what, how it can
be done.
So first you know, what's an R package?
The basic idea is that it's an exte, it's
a mechanism for extending the basic
functionality of R.
So, when you download R, you know, you get
a couple of base packages.
Things like graphics and GR devices there
are
kind of implement this kind of fundamental
functionality.
But there's all kinds of functionality
that's
not included in the basic R distribution.
and, and it's, that's because it's
basically impossible to kind of
include all, everything that everyone
might need in a single package.
So there's an extension mechanism called
the package system that allows other
people to write functions and to write
other kind of functionality and to
then, and then so then other users can
kind of add it on
or tack it on to the, to the kind of base
R installation.
And so typically it's a collection of R
functions or data objects.
That are kind of wrapped together with
some other kind of elements like
documentation.
The goal of the R Package System is to
kind of organize this stuff in a
systematic way so that any time you get an
R Package, there are a couple of things
that are kind of common to all packages
that the same things are always in the
same places, and the, and you always
access
certain things, like help files, in the
same way.
So there's a certain amount of consistency
that's there, so that users can
kind of manage their expectations, any
time they get a new R Package.
There are thou, literally thousands of R
packages written by people all around the
world.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So where can you find R packages, well
typically you might go
to a central repository, such as the
comprehensive R art network or CRAN.
There are, another big repository is
called Bioconductor, which contains a lot
of
tools for bioinformatics and genomics and
those kind, and tha, those kinds of areas.
There are also a lot of packages that
are hosted on source code sharing websites
like
GitHub Bitbucket, Gitorious and so you
can, you
can attempt to install packages from those
repositories also.
Packages from CRAN of Bioconductor can be
installed
with the install.packages function that
kind of comes with R.
And all you need to do is specify the the
name of the package where the
repository was coming from, and it will
get,
install download and install a package for
you.
Packages from GitHub for example can be
installed using the install
GitHub function from the devtools package,
that's a very handy tool.
If you're building a package, you don't
have to put a package
on a central repository in order to
distribute it to other people.
But you can just kind of send them a
file or wh, whatever makes it, whatever's
easier for you.
But putting the packages on a central
repository, is useful because it, it
allows anyone to really find your package
and install it if they want.
So what's the purpose of making an R
package?
I mean, why would you want to go through
the effort of, of doing this?
When you can just kind of send someone a
file with your code in it?
And so there are a number of advantages
of having an R package available for other
people.
First of all it's it, it's a structured
format that
other people kind of understand if they
use other R packages.
Second of all, documentation is required
in an R package, so it forces you to
write some documentation and to explain
how
your function should be used to other
people.
You have, you have to document the
arguments and
you have to document the kind of the
return values.
Another thing is that it, it allows you to
kind
of create a well-defined API or
application programmer interface so that
you can specify what functions the users
should be calling,
and what functions in particular the user
should not be calling.
And so that way you can say, okay well
here if I, if you're
going to make some functionality available
to people,
and they should only, and you only want
them to access it through using a single
function, then you can say in
your R package, this is the only function
that you need, that you can access.
That way you could hide and abstract a
lot of the implementation details away
from the user.
So that, if you need to change them in the
future, you know, you can change them,
without having, without ruining the
interface that you've given
to to the public and for users to use.
It's also, you, also typically easier to
maintain an R package because the
structure and the documentation required
if for some reason, you decide you don't
want to maintain your package, or you
can't maintain it you could always kind of
pass it off to someone and then the
structure's already there for them.
I think, one advantage, I think, is that
there's some standards for a kind
of reliability and robustness that people
will have faith in so they know that
at least if it's on CRAN, it passed a
number of checks and that
it will load properly and kind of
not having a problem immediately on your
system.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So, the bas, the basic package development
process kind of goes something like this.
It may vary across different people, but
there's usually some element of this
process here.
So you typically write some R code in a
script or in a .R file.
And that's fine and you kind of write your
functions.
You kind of debug things.
You try things out.
And then you decide, maybe this code is
very useful to you.
But then at some point you might decide
that you want to make this code available
to others.
Or you might just want to kind of m, make
it available to yourself in a much more
structured way.
Maybe you're going to kind of finish up a
project, and
kind of going to want to leave it in a
state that's kind of, maintainable.
And so, the idea is that you'll, you'll,
typically you'll take,
you know, the R code that you've written,
which is in
these R files, and you'll incorporate it
into the R package
structure, which I'll talk to you, talk
about more in a second.
Then the next thing you typically do is
write
some documentation for the function, for
the user functions.
These are the functions that are, that are
public and available to the user and then
you
might think about including some other
material like examples,
or demos, or data sets or tutorials, or
vignettes.
Once all that's done you package it up and
you've got your R package.
So once, once you've got your R package
you could
just stop there you could have it
installed on your system,
you could kind of email it to a pers, to
a friend or if you want, if it's not that
big.
But the most logical thing to do often is
to submit it to a repository like CRAN or
Bioconductor.
You can also push the source code to
something like GitHub, a source code
sharing site, so that other people can
look at it and modify the source code.
And typically the scenario, there are two
scenarios that you will run into
once you make your package public to the
or available to the public.
The first is that you know, other people
will
use your code, they'll tell you about you
know,
problems that they encounter, and they'll
just let you
know and then they'll expect you to fix
it.
The other possibility is that they will
you know, look at your package,
they'll look at your code and they'll, if
there's some problems maybe they'll
figure out what the fix is and they'll fix
it for you, and
then they'll show you the changes and then
you can incorporate their changes.
Either way you know, I think it's, it's,
it's
useful to have other users looking at your
code
and helping you improve it, so this is a
real benefit to making your code available
to the public.
And then once you've incorporated these
changes, these fixes into
your package you can kind of release a new
version.